# MUSICBP
*Multi-taper MUSIC Back-projection Method for earthquake source imaging in Matlab.*

The Multiple Signal Classification (MUSIC) technique is a high-resolution technique designed to resolve closely spaced simultaneous sources. MUSIC enables back-projection imaging (BP) with superior resolution than the standard Beamforming techinque. MUSICBP is a tutorial code in Matlab that images the spatial-temporal evolution of high-frequency radiators (as a proxy of rupture front) for large earthquakes.

Please follow the instruction below for the code usage

1.    Open “General_BP.m” program in the folder named MUSICBP, and set “Initial_flag” as 1, set the project name (e.g. Palu_2018) to initialize the program. Run “General_BP.m”. This step will creat a project folder "Palu_2018".
2.    Enter your project folder "Palu_2018" and Copy all seismic data (ending with ‘.SAC’) that you’ve prepared for an earthquake into the “Data/” folder.
3.    In program setting only the “readBP_flag” as 1 to read the earthquake data into matlab. Make sure you set up parameters such as hypocenter locations and magnitude (under  the parameters to initialize the project and read the SAC files) of the earthquake properly. As the code finish running, plots of waveforms and stations will pop out. Meanwhile, a “data0.mat” file should be created in the ”Input/” folder, containing waveform data and parameters.
4.    In program setting the “alignBP_flag” as 1, and set the proper parameters under “Parameters for hypocenter alignment” part to align the waveform. We need to align the waveform several times to get the best alignment. See annotations after parameters for their meanings.
(Tips for alignment: Every time before alignment, looking at the waveform and mark the indexs of records with favorable signal-to-noise ratio. Set the best station as reference station. You can check the comments and learn how the frequency and time window are set. The parameter ‘ts’ is the starting time of the window for the cross-correlation. Make sure the window always centers the P-arrival, i.e. let ‘ts’ equal to [P arriving time] - [0.5*window]. Try to preserve as much stations with higher cross-correlation coefficient as you can. A station distribution with higher density, larger range aperture, and larger azimuthal aperture should be favored to provide more reliable BP results. When “refSta” is 0, it means the stacked waveform will be used as the reference station.
5.    Setting “runBPbmfm_flag” or “runBPmusic_flag” as 1 and set up parameters of the back-projection runner to perform the Beamforming BP or Multiple Signal Classification BP. This step produces the BP movies (movie.gif) and Summary plots (summary.pdf). The coordinates and power of the BP results are listed in “HFdots” (time, lat, lon, power) file.

